Pedro Oses Diaz
Villa Clara, 1954 – 2009
Pedro Oses was born in Guaracabulla, a small town that was his entire universe and where he developed his whole work until his death in 2009. At nine years old, the doctors found and removed a tumor in his spine. The disease limited his normal growth and caused him problems with the muscular control of his extremities, thus he lived with a permanent physical disability. After this incident, he started painting. He later commented, he began painting because he got bored at home as he couldn’t go to school or help his family with the farm work. In 1979, he met the Cuban writer and painter Samuel Feijóo and the group Signos (Signs), that Feijóo managed. This group was formed by singular self-taught artists from the central provinces of Cuba. Pedro instantly became an inseparable and faithful exponent of that group. Although he didn’t finish elementary school nor he had an artistic education, the great originality of his works and his virtuosity astonished the specialists. Many of his works use the countryside as motif and are influenced by traditions, myths, legends and superstitions that he reflected in a unique way, where reality overlaid with fantasy. In other cases, he recreates a completely illusive, mystical, enigmatic and sometimes chilling world. This takes him apart from folk, popular and naïve art. His works show his philosophy of life, love, religion and death through a relevant and fabulous set of symbols he uses to express different meanings. Painting was his way of designing his own universe through forms and colors, fusing common and singular subjects. He is considered one of the most important Cuban self-taught painters.
Exhibitions
1999. Personal exhibition. Museum of Naïve Art. Paris, France.
1996. Times of Signos. Provincial Museum of Villa Clara. Santa Clara, Cuba.
1991. Dibujecues and pinturecues. City House. Santa Clara, Cuba.
1989. 3rd Havana Biennial. Havana, Cuba. 
1989. 1rst Biennial of Centro America. Coliseum Ruben Dario. Managua, Nicaragua.  
1986. 2nd Havana Biennial. Havana, Cuba.
1986. Inks and temperas. Provincial Museum of Villa Clara. Santa Clara, Cuba.
1983. Inventive Art from Cuba. Collection de L’Art Brut. Lausanne, Switzerland.
1981. Popular artists from Cuba. National Library Jose Marti. Havana, Cuba.

