Parallel Expressions
May – June 2015
Artists
Misleidys Francisca Castillo Pedroso
Damian Valdes Dilla
Guillermo Rigoberto Casola Marcos
Carlos Javier Garcia Huergo
Boris Adolfo Martin Santamaria
Josvedy Jove Junco (El Sirio)
Roberto O´Farrill Multan
Words on catalogue by Samuel Riera*

To the forgotten ones…
The context is opportune. Jean Dubuffet said that everyone has a creative potential that the social norms destroy. I could also say that social pressures and nonconformities boost repressed and psychologically unbalanced persons but also their creative capacity. That’s why is possible to meet isolated, abandoned or disappointed individuals with a big creativity regarding the artistic creation as the more important communication tool and without the necessity to be exposed or known. 
The first approaches to the Art Brut term in Cuba were made by Samuel Feijóo (1914-1992), poet, narrator, folklorist, painter, editor, critic, teacher, and Cuban journalist. In 1983 he travels to Lausanne, Switzerland, answering the Jean Dubuffet’s request to show in the Collection de L’Art Brut, the exhibit named: “Art Inventif á Cuba”. This was made up gathering several pieces of young Cuban artists. Most of them were naïf artists, self-taught and described by Dubuffet as “singular artists” but no really as Art Brut artists. 
Since then Art Brut was conceived as totally isolated, scattered around and studied just by a few, also it was mixed up with Naïf and Popular Art tendencies, as a way of expression outside the academics’ boundaries. The alternative art as an emergent phenomenon provided space for some of these artists without noticing the real contents of their expression. And then, Art Brut Project Cuba was born inside Riera Studio to develop Art Brut in our country. We created a work group, which purpose was to gather all the information relating this matter, the search of artists, analysis by urban and rural areas and the possibilities and aptitudes of the chosen ones, and also to create a social awareness program, mainly regarding their families. From now on, we could attract around 20 people with vulnerable conditions and a high creative activity, although not all of them kept a continuous process which could allow us to permanently work with them. 
Art Brut Project Cuba had a young but intense activity during its more than a year and a half existence. We continue to try to permanently take care of the independent attitude of our artists and the conscious support of their relatives. We are walking through a delicate path where mental creativity inspires the observers and moves the most sensitive ones. It’s a fight against those who think is impossible to change thought through art. Certainly, this tool exists, consciously or not, to those who chose it and are strongly related to it. We will always support the word or the voice of those who were forgotten because of their different way of thinking.
* Samuel Riera is artist, curator and director of RIERA STUDIO | Art Brut Project Cuba and collector of Cuban Art Brut
*Exhibition included in the 12th Havana Biennial.

